# OpenGL-3D-Scene
In this project, I applied what I learned about OpenGL in order to create a three-dimensional scene that contained miscellaneous objects. I first learned how to create primitive shapes using position data within a vertex buffer object to render the points and then draw using GLFW library. I also learned how to include color data, texture data, as well as normals for lighting effects in the vertex buffer object. In addition, I learned and applied the use of vertex attribute objects to modularize and reuse many vertex buffer objects in the scene. Another important piece of using OpenGL was the development and implementation of shaders, specifically the vertex and fragment shaders. Shaders are essentially programs for the GPU to execute using the data sent from the CPU. The project also includes input processing using a mouse and keyboard to navigate the scene. Lighting effects using the Phong's model was also applied to give a realistic visual effect on the scene. The design of the project resulting in a similar process for each object. First, the shader was developed that accounted for positions, textures, and lighting. A unique shader program was created for each object. Then the object's mesh was created, which contained data corresponding to the primitive shape, texture, and lighitng normals. Then all of the textures were loaded and assigned a texture unit or texel. Within the render loop, after setting the necessary variables for input processing, the logic for each object followed the same pattern. First the lighting uniforms were set by calling the appropriate shader uniforms function, each diffuse and specular maps were bound, the appropriate vertex attribute object was selected, the model matrix was calculated and sent to the shader, and the object was rendered. In future 3D scenes, the same design process could be used to render objects with texutres and lighting effects.
In this project, I used an iterative approach to fully develop my 3D scene. I first rendered the basic shapes before applying textures. I then applied my textures, which required new vertex attribute data as well as functionality to load and applied the textures to the shaders. Finally, lighting effects were applied to the scene, which required rework of the logic. The vertex buffer object's vertex attributes needed to include the normals and the vertex attribute pointers had to be adjusted. Shaders had to be redeveloped to account for ambient, diffuse, and specular lighting from the different types of light sources that included direction, point, and spot lighitng. With each iteration, the scene became more realistic and inefficient logic was redeveloped.
I believe knowledge of graphics will aid my educational pathway in that I will understand how the CPU and GPU interact as well as the complexities of just rendering a sphere. I hope to apply my knowledge of OpenGL basics in the future. As there are many different graphic libraries and flavors, I hope to utilize my basic understanding to further development my skill in graphics and visualization. This may come in the form of using WebGL to create a graphical interface on a webpage that allows displays a graphically intense scene or OpenGL for game development. 
